Heavy Upper (Starting with Chest Press)
Week 3 – Day 1 of the Westside Barbell Foundations Program
1. Chest Press
On this workout you’re going to slowly warm up to the heaviest band you can handle for a minimum of 3-5 reps. Once you’ve established a PB (personal best) on this movement you’re going to attempt to beat it each time we return to this movement. Once you’re able to hit 5+ reps comfortably on this exercise you should start looking to increase a level of band tension.
After this max-out set you will rest as long as necessary to be ready for the next set.
2. Chest Press
After you’ve completed your all out, PR setting set, you’ll either drop from a double band to a single – or if you were using a single band you’ll go down one level of band resistance and do a single, maximum repetition set. You want to ensure you record the number of reps you achieved as it will be your goal to beat this the next time you do a chest press.
After this max-rep set you will rest as long as necessary to be ready for the next exercise.
3. Tricep Press
For this exercise you will perform 3-4 sets of 6-10 reps, only moving to a more difficult level of resistance when you can comfortably perform all 4 sets of 10 reps. You should rest between 75-90 seconds between sets.
4. Underhand Grip Row
On this exercise you’re going to perform a Rest-Pause (RP) set. This means you will perform a set to failure, rest for 10 deep breaths and then perform another set to failure followed by 10 deep breaths and one more final set to failure. 15 reps across this entire RP exercise will be your minimum target and you will increase the level of band tension once you can complete 25 reps over the entire rest-pause set.
5. Lateral Raise
This exercise will also be a rest-pause set, following the same protocol. Your minimum rep target is 20 reps and you will increase the difficulty once you’ve achieved more than 30.
6. Bicep Curl
This is the final exercise of the workout and another rest-pause set. Your minimum reps are 20 and you will increase at the next workout when you’ve achieved at least 30 reps.
Back to the Foundations Program Program
