Heavy Lower (Starting with Deadlift)
Week 8 – Day 2 of the Westside Barbell Foundations Program
1. Deadlift
On this workout you’re going to slowly warm up to the heaviest band you can handle for a minimum of 3-5 reps. Once you’ve established a PB (personal best) on this movement you’re going to attempt to beat it each time we return to this movement. Once you’re able to hit 5+ reps comfortably on this exercise you should start looking to increase a level of band tension.
After this max-out set you will rest as long as necessary to be ready for the next set.
2. Deadlift
After you’ve completed your all out, PR setting set, you’ll either drop from a double band to a single – or if you were using a single band you’ll go down one level of band resistance and do a single, maximum repetition set. You want to ensure you record the number of reps you achieved as it will be your goal to beat this the next time you deadlift.
3. Split Squat
For this exercise you will perform 3 sets of 8-12 reps per side, only moving to a more difficult level of resistance when you can comfortably perform all 3 sets of 12 reps. You should rest between 75-90 seconds between sets with zero rest between sides.
4. Stiff Leg Deadlift
On this exercise you’re going to perform a Rest-Pause (RP) set. This means you will perform a set to failure, rest for 10 deep breaths and then perform another set to failure followed by 10 deep breaths and one more final set to failure. 12 reps across this entire RP exercise will be your minimum target and you will increase the level of band tension once you can complete 20 reps over the entire rest-pause set.
5. Zercher Oblique Twist
For this exercise you will perform 2 sets of 20 reps per side, only moving to a more difficult level of resistance when you can comfortably perform both sets of 20 reps. You should rest between 75-90 seconds between sets.
6. Isometric Deadlift
You’re going to perform 3 sets of this exercise with 10 seconds in 3 positions each set. You will begin at the lowest position where you feel band tension and hold for 10 seconds. Once the first 10 seconds is over you will lift to the mid-point of the movement and hold for 10 more seconds before lifting to just before lock out and holding for another 10 seconds. You will then rest for 30 seconds before the next set. This exercise will be 30 seconds of work, followed by 30 seconds of rest for 3 full sets.
Back to the Foundations Program Program
