Home
Programs
Conjugate Hypertrophy Program
Repetition Upper (Starting with Chest Press)
Repetition Upper (Starting with Chest Press)
Week 5—Day 1 of the Westside Barbell Conjugate Hypertrophy Program
Chest Press
Complete 1 set of 15 to 25 repetitions at a controlled lifting and lowering pace—not intentionally slow or fast.
Use a resistance band that challenges you while allowing for a full range of motion. The goal is to surpass your rep record each week. Once you can consistently achieve 25 or more perfect reps, increase the resistance of your band.
Chest Press—Slow Eccentric
Perform 2 sets taken to complete failure. Use a lighter resistance band (one level down from your main set). Each repetition should include a 5-second negative phase.
Once you can no longer complete a full range of motion (ROM) rep, continue with partial reps until you reach absolute failure.
Rest for at least 3 minutes between sets.
Tricep Press
Perform 4 sets of 10 repetitions.
The first three sets are full range of motion, with no partials.
The final set should be taken to complete failure, using partials at the end.
Underhand Grip Bent-over
Complete 5 sets of 10 repetitions. For sets 1 to 3, perform full range of motion (ROM) reps with a 1-second pause at the top of each rep.
For set 4, use partial reps, but only continue until you can no longer achieve 50% of the full range of motion. Set 5 should be taken to complete failure.
Lateral Raise
Perform 4 sets of 10. Same protocol as above: first 3 sets full ROM with a 1-second pause at the top; final set includes partials to failure. Complete 4 sets of 10 repetitions.
Follow the same protocol as above: for the first 3 sets, perform full range of motion (ROM) with a 1-second pause at the top; the final set includes partial repetitions to failure.
Bicep Curl
Perform 4 sets of 10 repetitions. Again, do full reps with a
one-second pause at the top, and complete the final set with partial reps to failure.
Back to the Conjugate Hypertrophy Program
